(0)  Read the README's.  There's a lot of useful info buried in there...

(1) If you want to play on hardware decoders don't build variable
	bit-rate video streams.  If you intend to use software players
	variable bit-rate is a much more efficient way of encoding and
	guarantees decent quality.  All in all a *much* better
	bet. HOWEVER: the variable bit-rate support in "mpeg2enc" is new
	so there could be bugs. As ever let me know if something weird
	happens.  The code for the "-V" flags in the lav2mpeg script shows
	an example for typical usage.

	 Buffer sizes.  For hardware players experimentation is the order
	 of the day.  My DXR2 seems to use a nice big > 100K buffer for
	 VCD as well as DVD streams and be happy to read MPEG-1 streams
	 *much* faster than the official VCD 170K/sec.  300K seems fine.
	 
	 Generally, you'll probably need a buffer size of around 1/4
	 data-rate to avoid buffer underflows (signalled as "TO<framenum>"'s
	 by mplex).
	 
(2)  If you want to play MPEG-1 stuff on hardware decoders stick to
     44.1 192Kbps Stereo layer-2 audio.  The 100Kbps or so maximum you'll gain
	using MP3 aren't going to make a visible difference to video anyway.

(3)  Use the noise filters when MPEG compressing broadcast material
     unless it is *very* good or you like Artefacts. 

(4) If you want to compress MPEG-2: feel free to try it, however, its
	not tested.  Fully tested version coming next...

(5) Storing MPEG's.  If you record the data as XA mode 2 tracks you
	can fit appreciably more on a CD (at the expense of error
	correction/detection).  You need to slightly hack mkvcdfs or vcdimager
	to stop them prepending/appending lots of null sectors if you use them
	to do this.  I'll try to incorporate suitable patches through their
	developers before you read this!
 
(6) For encoding a typical (45 minute running time) show or 90 odd
	minute movie from an analog broadcast I have found a CBR bit-rate
	of 1900 to be ideal.  The resulting files are around 700M for 45
	minutes which fits nicely as a raw XA MODE2 data track on a CD-R.
	(I use cdrdao to write such CD's and a hacked version of vcdread -
	soon to be included to extract them).

	Update: I've now got a digital cable provider.  Digital TV sources
	(even when captured via an analog interface) give *much* better
	results.  There doesn't seem much point going above 1400 or
	1500Kbps.  Often even VCD 1152 works fine. It depends a bit on the
	quality of the original. However, IMHO the VCD rate is silly 'cos
	it means every movie still needs two CD's but the second is mostly
	empty.  Might as well crank the rate (and quality) up until you
	come in at just under 2 CD's.

	On modern 400Mhz+ CPU's there is *no point* running with a motion
	compensation setting less than 16.  The speed gains aren't huge as
	other parts of the encoder take a significant fraction of the
	time. See the mpeg2enc README.

(7) For transcoding existing MPEG-2 streams a still lower data-rate
	than for broadcast will give good results. Standard VCD 1152 Kbps
	typically works just fine.  The difference is in the Signal/Noise
	ratio of the original.  The noise in the analog stuff makes it
	much harder to compress.

	You will also need to manually adjust the audio delay offset
	relative to video when multiplexing.  Very often around 150ms
	delay seems to do the trick.

(8) Variable bit-rate.  Remember to tell mplex you're encoding VBR as
	well as mpeg2enc (see the example scripts).  It *could*
	auto-detect but I haven't got around to that yet.  You should tell
	mplex a video buffer size at least as large as the one you
	specified to "mpeg2enc".  Sensible numbers for MPEG-1 might be a
	ceiling bit-rate of 2800Kbps, a quality ceiling (quantisation
	floor) of 6 and a buffer size of 400K.

(9) 	VCDs.
	VCD's have very specific requirements as to the format of the
	multiplexed systems stream.  In parts these are actually at least
	"bendings" of the original MPEG standard and are far from optimal
	as far as maximising possible quality goes.  Anyway, to build a
	VCD you absolutely *must* used the VCD format option for mplex "-f
	1".  This turns on a lot of weird stuff that otherwise has no place 
	in a respectable multiplexer!

	Obviously, to play on all players your original MPEG video must be the	
	standard 1151Kbps and audio must be 224Kbps MPEG-1 layer 2 (as produced by
	the "-v" flag of mp2enc.

	The systems streams generated by "-f 1" have been tested and succesfully 
	burned onto CD using vcdimager and vcdburn.

	The "-v" flag to the lav2mpeg script does the right thing.

(10) Big files.  Under typical linux 2.2 systems files are limited to
	2G bytes.   This is rarely a problem for MPEG-1 video files but it could
	bite.  If your video threatens to exceed 2G you'll need to do it in
	seperate chunks (for now). 

	As a completely seperate issue, mplex will automatically split
	output into files at the usual size for a blank CD written to in
	XA mode 2 like a VCD.

	Note that it does *not* generate seperate stand-alone MPEG streams
	in each file.  This would in involve all kinds of jiggery pokery
	with inserting new sequence headers, and recalculating buffers. To
	do it properly the splitting would have to be done by mpeg2enc and
	mp2enc and would open a whole can of worms to do with synchronisation.

	What currently happens is that 2nd 3rd etc files are simply 
	*continuations* of the 1st.  To play them you need to concatenate
	them and treat them as a single looong stream. This is exactly the
	same (nasty) approach used on DVD's with their 1G-byte "VOB" files.

	To allow convenient and efficient storage I burn the continuation files
	into VCD format disks using a slightly hacked version of vcdburn
	where the sanity checking on the stream being burned can be turned off.
	The contents of the resulting VCD can then be later read and joint
	to its predecessors using the "readvcd" utility. Actually, when I
	use my dxr2 there's no need to concatenate as it simply plays each
	file in sequence (if they have suitable names).

	Anyway, apologies for this deficiency.  I hope to very soon put a
	quick and dirty hack into mplex that (for streams that don't
	change encoding parameters) produces proper stand-alone mpeg
	streams in each file.  In the interim the other solution is to
	encode only suitably sized chunks to start with.  The "lav2mpeg"
	script is already set-up to allow multiple machines (or processes)
	to work on a set of encoding jobs simultaneously.

11) SVCD images.  An SVCD video stream is variable bit-rate MPEG-2
	with a maximum rate of 2788Kbps and a video buffer size of 234KB.
	Currently I recommend encoding -m 2 -F 3 or (for progressive
	material like PAL films) -m 2 -F 0.  -F 1 and -F 2 will work but
	are currently handicapped by rather dumb code to choose the type
	of motion compensation.  I have some suspicions that the rate control
	code needs adjusting for field sequences (-m 2 -F 1 and -F 2) also.

Andrew

