lavtools: Linux Audio and Video TOOLS

Programs for recording and playback and simple cut-and-paste editting
and compression of audio and video under Linux.  Currently only the
Iomega Buz is supported - more hardware can follow if somebody wants
that.  Matrox marvel support is *almost* ready if I recall recent
announcements correctly.

N.b. Only the "lav" programs have been written from scratch.  The
rest are from diverse open source sources, modified slightly to work
with the lav tools edit lists and AVI and quicktime files.  Some
(especially the MPEG tools) have had also more major perfomance 
and functionality enhancements.   They're all bundled together here to
save you the tedious hunting around we have to go through ;-)


- "lavrec" is a program to record AVI and Quicktime files with
   the Iomega BUZ including sound recording from the soundcard.

- "lavplay" plays back AVI and Quicktime files with the Iomega BUZ
  (including sound).

- "xlav" in the directory xlav is a GUI for lavplay which permits
  fast forward/reverse, single frame stepping and simple editing.
	

- "lavtrans" (in directory utils) converts a mixture of AVI files,
  Quicktime files  or Edit Lists into a single AVI or Quicktime file
  into single images or into WAV files.

- "lavaddwav" (in directory utils) lets you add another soundtrack
  (a WAV file) to an AVI/Quicktime file

- "mpeg2enc" for encoding AVI/Quicktime files and Edit Lists
  to MPEG-1/2 video streams

- "aenc" for encoding AVI/Quicktime files and Edit Lists
  to MPEG-1/2 audio streams

- mplex multiplexes (interleaves) MPEG-1 video and audio streams
  into a combined "system stream" that can be played back smoothly.
  This is *not* a trivial task (see the authors excellent paper on
  the subject - copy is in the documentation). 
  
- mpegjoin joins *video* (not audio, not system) streams into a single
  stream.  This is very useful if you want to divide compressing
  a big video stream into smaller bite-size chunks (e.g. to allow
  multiple machines to work in parallel).  To join *audio* for mplex
  simply "cat" the files together (its has been modified to handle this).


- Scripts is a collection of usefulcontains sample shell scripts
	giving example usage of various files.

See the README's of the various programs for further details
of authorship, usage, and implementatation/compilation details.


Attention: lavplay is mainly intended to play back files created by lavrec and
should also be able to play back AVI files created from the Iomega BUZ
under Win98.
The vast majority of AVI/Quicktime files will not be played by lavplay!!!
The reason is that lavplay needs specialy coded AVI files (MJPG codec),
all other files don't have that codec and can not be used by the BUZ.



Compile:

I know its complicated, but follow exactly the steps below!

Quicktime4linux needs jpeg-6b, since my system (SuSE 6.3) still provides
jpeg-6a, I have included jpeg-6b here.
If jpeg-6b is allready installed on your system, you may want to remove
that directory and change the Makefiles accordingly.

- go into directory jpeg-6b, do

  ./configure
  make libjpeg.a

- go into directory quicktime, type make

- type make in the main directory

- go into directory xlav, type make
  xlav needs the xforms toolkit, you may have to get it from the net
  and you may have to change the Makefile

- go into directory utils, type make

- go into directory mpeg2enc, edit the Makefile to suit the intended
  CPU's (No MXX at all, only ordinary MMX, SSE/Athlon MMX) 
  type make

- go into directory aenc, type make

- go into directory mplex, edit the Makefile to suit your CPU, type make


Now put all the programs where you want them and enjoy.

Run:


Look at the headers of lavrec.c and lavplay.c for the available options.

lavtrans.c and lavaddwav.c also have short description of usage.
(See below!)

xlav is started using the same params as lavplay, lavplay is internally called
by xlav and therefore has to be in the search path. Make sure the proper
version of lavplay is found!

Read the 'README' in mpeg2eng!

Read the 'README' in aenc!

UTILS:

lavtrans -o <outputfile> -f [aqiw] filenames
          -f a    output AVI file
          -f q    output Quicktime file
          -f i    output single JPEG images, -o option mut be a valid format string
          -f w    output WAV file (sound only!)

lavaddwav AVI_or_QT_file WAV_file Output_file



You reach us by email:

lav* : Rainer@Johanni.de
mpeg2enc mplex : Andrew.Stevens@comlab.ox.ac.uk

